# What is the value of migrating this workload? 

As we consider this migration effort, you may wonder about the benefits of migrating this workload to the cloud. There are many, but some of the value propositions include 

*Security and compliance.* When you bring compute and data workloads to the cloud they benefit from increased security capabilities (...). Virtual Machines in Azure benefit from a vast array of security and compliance features (firewalls, vnets, JIT, encryption, RBAC, confidential computing, ...). Azure Database for PostgreSQL supports many similar features, as well ([encryption with customer managed keys](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-data-encryption), [compliance certifications](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-compliance), support for [Microsoft Defender for Cloud](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-security#microsoft-defender-for-cloud-support), ...).  

*Secure connections between your Virtual Machines and Databases.* As we integrate these two services it is critical that they are able to connect to each other in a secure manner that reduces the risk of data loss. [Microsoft Entra ID authentication](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-azure-ad-authentication) enables you to connect to your Azure Database for PostgreSQL without the use of traditional passwords, but instead using Entra ID identities for both your application workload (Managed Identity) as well as users and administrators via their Entra ID user accounts. This mitigates the risk of long-lived credentials being compromised and allowing bad actors to access your data. Entra ID, Managed Identities, and fine-grained Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) can enable your application workload to access data, and even manage resources in Azure in a similarly secure manner, and enable you to follow the principal of least privilege. 

*Access to high-performance and cost-effective compute across multiple regions.* Whether you need cost-effective compute for test-dev, or the most recent, highest performance, or largest compute types available in the cloud today, Azure has you covered with a broad selection of compute options for both [Virtual Machines](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/sizes/overview) and [Azure Database for PostgreSQL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-compute) able to be scaled up and down as-needed, and available across many [over N]() regions across Azure. Compute can be scaled vertically as well as horizontally (including via [database replicas](...), and [distributed](... citus) options). This compute is paired with some of the [fastest cloud storage options](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/disks-types) to tailor your compute and storage I/O requirements to your workload. 

*Cost management and cost-effectiveness.* You can optimize for cost management and cost-effectiveness on both the Linux and the Postgres sides of the ledger. When compared with on-prem, the cost can often be significantly more tailored and appropriate for your situation. You can right-size your compute in comparison to an on prem solution. You can also easily manage your entire fleet to optimize for only the compute and storage you need, and pay only for what you need and use in a utility billing model. Utility billing enables customers to handle periods of high demand without having to pay the cost of over-provisioning, as well as migrate to faster and more efficient generations of compute as it becomes available. 

*Day 2 operations.* Operations across the board become more efficient through automation, ability to upgrade easily with potentially zero downtime, monitoring, security patching, backups and disaster recovery, and the ability to manage your infrastructure end to end with industry standard toolchains. 
